Cms/workspace extensions (#7265)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 16/umbraco-cms/customizing/extending-overview/extension-types/workspaces/workspace-context.md

---
description: >-

>   Learn how to create workspace contexts that provide shared state management and communication between extensions in the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Learn how to create workspace contexts that manage shared state and enable communication between extensions in a workspace.
```

---

# Workspace Context

Workspace Contexts serve as the central communication hub for workspace extensions, providing shared state management within workspace boundaries. They enable different workspace components to interact through a common data layer.

## Purpose

Workspace Contexts provide:
- **Shared state** scoped to a specific workspace instance
- **Communication layer** between extensions in the workspace
- **Entity lifecycle management** for workspace data

> - **Context isolation** ensuring workspace independence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Context isolation** ensures workspace independence
```

	#counter = new UmbNumberState(0);
	readonly counter = this.#counter.asObservable();

	constructor(host: UmbControllerHost) {
		super(host, EXAMPLE_COUNTER_CONTEXT);
	}

	increment() {
		this.#counter.setValue(this.#counter.value + 1);
	}

	reset() {
		this.#counter.setValue(0);
	}
}

export const api = WorkspaceContextCounterElement;

export const EXAMPLE_COUNTER_CONTEXT = new UmbContextToken<WorkspaceContextCounterElement>(
	'UmbWorkspaceContext',
	'example.workspaceContext.counter',
);
```
{% endcode %}

## Context Token Pattern

Always use `'UmbWorkspaceContext'` as the first parameter in your context token to ensure proper workspace scoping and isolation:

```typescript
export const MY_WORKSPACE_CONTEXT = new UmbContextToken<MyWorkspaceContext>(
	'UmbWorkspaceContext', // Ensures workspace scoping
	'my.extension.alias',   // Must match manifest alias
);
```

## Workspace Lifecycle

### Initialization
- Created when workspace loads
- Available to all extensions within that workspace
- Destroyed when workspace closes

### Scoping
- Context instances are isolated per workspace
- Extensions can only access contexts from their own workspace

> - Context requests automatically scope to nearest workspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Context requests automatically scope to the nearest workspace
```

---
description: >-

>   Learn how to create workspace contexts that provide shared state management and communication between workspace extensions.

Reviewer 2: I might consider rephrasing this as "and communication between extensions in the workspace."

My initial impression of the text as-is was that it was saying that contexts managed data inside of the workspace extension, but then that other workspace extensions could also access/interface with the context, too.

Based on text below, that's not the case.

---

# Workspace Context

Workspace Contexts serve as the central communication hub for workspace extensions, providing shared state management within workspace boundaries. They enable different workspace components to interact through a common data layer.

## Purpose

Workspace Contexts provide:
- **Shared state** scoped to a specific workspace instance

> - **Communication layer** between workspace extensions

Reviewer 2: Same thing as above - let's clarify if workspace contexts manage data between sub-extensions inside of the workspace, or if they're also able to act as a public interface for extensions inside of other workspaces.
